== Using the SDK in your Visual Studio.NET project

=== Add SDK References to the project

Right-click on the References map in your project and click Add
Reference:

image:media/image3.png[media/image3,width=198,height=149]

Reference *external libraries (*.dll files)* by selecting them via the
‘Browse’ button and reference *project files (*.csproj)* by adding them
to your solution and referencing the project. (*Important!* When using
the PalmSens SDK without the simplified wrapper the *CoreDependencies*
must be initiated before you run a measurement, to do this call the
*PalmSens.Windows.CoreDependencies.Init()* method one time beforehand)

The PalmSens.Core.dll and PalmSens.Core.Windows.dll libraries should
always be referenced. If you wish to use the simplified wrapper to
control your devices the *PalmSens.Core.Simplified.csproj* and
*PalmSens.Core.Simplified.WinForms.csproj* should be referenced. To use
the plot control the *SDKPlot.csproj*, *SDKPlot.WinForms.csproj*,
*OxyPlot.dll,* and *OxyPlot.WindowsForms.dll* should be referenced.

If your project does not build please make sure you are targeting the
.NET Framework 4.7.2 or higher, you are using visual studio 2017 or
higher, and that the .NET standard 2.0 is available.

image:media/image4.png[media/image4,width=200,height=120]

=== Add PSCommSimpleWinforms or PS component to your user interface (simplified wrapper only)

image:media/image5.png[media/image5,width=228,height=115]First import
the *PalmSens.Core.Simplified.csproj* and
*PalmSens.Core.Simplified.WinForms.csproj* into your solution and build
the *PalmSens.Core.Simplified.WinForms* project. Then reference these
projects in your project. Next, go to the designer of your *Main Form*
and look for the *PSCommSimpleWinforms* component in your toolbox. Drag
and drop this component on top of your *Form*. If you would like to
develop for a multi channel instrument use the
*PSMultiCommSimpleWinForms* component instead.

image:media/image6.png[media/image6,width=197,height=143]Finally, select
the PSCommSimpleWinforms/ PSMultiCommSimpleWinForms component in your
form, go to the properties window and set the property Parent to
reference the current form. (This is necessary for the simplified
PalmSens.Core wrapper to automatically handle potential threading issues
for you).

image:media/image7.png[media/image7,width=208,height=206]

== PalmSens.Core.dll

The basis for handling measurements is the *PalmSens.Measurement* class,
or the *PalmSens.Core.Simplified.Data.SimpleMeasurement* class when
using the simplified wrapper.

The measurement class contains all classes, functions, and parameters
necessary for performing a measurement with a PalmSens or EmStat
instrument. It has one method and can contain multiple curves. Curves
are a representation of the data in the measurement used for plotting
and analysis.

The following diagram shows the inheritance structure of the Method
classes:
